---
title: What is Your Minimalist Destination?
# is this post useful? it seems to be half advice half self-advertisement.
---

Being minimalist is having the flexibility to do what you want, when you wish
to do it.

**Think about it, if you wanted to, could you do these things:**

  * Can you fly to Peru next Friday?
  * Can you start your own company in a month?
  * Can you relocate to Vancouver next week?
  * If you lost your job, would it be devastating?

I don’t believe you should just be minimalist for the sake of being
minimalist. The philosophy has to have another reason, and it’s important to
write that down.

Think of something impossible, an objective that you’ve always wanted to
achieve, but that everyone told you was impractical. Make that your goal for
next year.

Write that goal down.

When I quit my job and flew to Portland Oregon in August, it was easy, because
I could carry all of my stuff. I lived a sustainable life, so surviving on
$3,000 for three months wasn’t a problem while I worked my freelance contacts
online.

Many people are trapped in their own lives by their stuff. But the reality is,
we don’t need any of it anymore.

Despite what they might tell you on television news, we live in an age of
abundance.

You can have everything you ever wanted, it’s down at the corner store. It’s
important to recognize that you can have everything that you want, but if you
limit yourself to the essentials you will open a world of possibilities for
yourself. You can live anywhere, you can work in anywhere.

It doesn’t matter who you are, the possibilities are open if you get rid of
the physical, mental, and emotional stuff.

You can be free. You can do the impossible.

–

Here’s my ‘impossible’ goal for next year:

I want to make Far Beyond The Stars my primary source of income. A handful of
people have told me this is impossible, but I don’t believe that is true now.
[Leo Babauta has done
this](http://www.alistbloggingbootcamps.com/introduction-2/), [Chris
Guillebeau has done this](http://chrisguillebeau.com/3x5/overnight-success/).
Many others make $60,000-$100,000 a year off their blogs.

I’m aiming for a more modest $30,000. That’s a little more than I need to
survive, with those extra dollars I’ll buy my girlfriend a birthday present.

I’m going to keep writing posts that help people. I want to continue to teach
people how to simplify their lives and be happier.

How can you help me do this? Share my stories with a few friends. If you enjoy
an article, there is a ‘share’ option at the bottom of the post. Post my story
to Twitter, Facebook, or email it to a couple of folks. This is so easy, it
takes 10 seconds, and it’s the only way that my articles reach new people.

Only share my post if you enjoyed it, only do this if you think they will
enjoy reading it too.

If only a handful of people give a small amount this year, my goal is no
longer an impossibility.

–

What impossible goals will you set for yourself next year? How will you
achieve them?