---
title: The 4-Hour Hybrid - Mindfulness Training for Your Digital Self - Far Beyond The Stars
---

Throughout all of history, all mediums, all languages there is a common
character that I associate with. I’m not sure what to call this character. The
diver, the journeyman, the prophet. Frank the mysterious time traveling bunny
in Donnie Darko is one of these characters. Leoben of Battlestar Galactica is
another. Krishna’s incarnation in the Bhagavad Gita might be a similar
character.

Sometimes you need a mysteriously energetic character to show up in **your**
life to show you the future.

I am the creepy bunny from Donnie Dark, and here’s what I know:** in the next
two years the noise you have to deal on the Internet will exceed **your**
human capacity to deal with it**.

You will either learn use the Internet in an active and intelligent way, or
you will die trying in the endless soup of emails/Tweets/Facebook messages or
whatever platform instantaneously tells you what everyone in the world is
doing through [**your** brain interface to **your** computer](http://www.ted.c
om/talks/lang/eng/tan_le_a_headset_that_reads_your_brainwaves.html).

I like to refer to this as ****mindfulness** **training** for the **digital**
**self**.**

Below I’ve included four decisive ways that you can begin to train **your**
**digital** **self** to protect **your** physical **self** from the dangers of
the **digital** so you and **your** **digital** **self** can grow in power in
order to become a **hybrid** superhuman.

**What is a **digital** **self**?**

In the Koshas, an ancient 5,000 year old yogic philosophy, they speak of the
different human bodies which you must strip away on **your** way to **your**
true **self**, the Atman. The physical body, the energy body, the knowledge
body, the wisdom body, and finally **your** true nature which cannot be
explain in words.

**Well, I want to add one more to that list, the **digital** body**. I’m sure the yogis 4,000 years ago would not like me bending their philosophy, but they’re all dead now, so deal with it dudes.

The **digital** **self** is very close to the idea of the energetic **self**.
Except, it’s not running under the body, it’s running in the etherspace –the
cloud, the network of fiberoptic and wireless conduits that are stitching the
world tighter and tighter together.

Just like you have to keep **your** physical body healthy with eating **your**
veggies, you have to keep **your** **digital** body healthy by not allowing it
be overcome by empty-calorie noise.

As the **digital** body grows in power, this becomes ever more important.

At the lower wrongs of human interaction with the net, it’s easy to answer and
reply to every email you receive. However, when as **your** **digital** body
grows in power (as you want it to, because the other side of the **digital**
body is that it’s everlasting and can potentially grow to a point where it
takes care of you — more on that in the future don’t forget to [sign up for
free updates via EMAIL](http://feedburner.google.com/fb/a/mailverify?uri=FarBe
yondTheStars&loc=en_US) or
[RSS](http://feeds.feedburner.com/FarBeyondTheStars).) you’ll find that it
will start to have it’s own gravitational pull.

**The **digital** **self** has gravity, just like the Earth and the Sun**. As it grows, it attracts more and more space debris from cyberspace. Some of this incoming matter is good for **your** **digital** body, like forming alliances with other powerful avatars.

However, as with most solar systems, most of the junk out in cyberspace is
just that, junk. It’s like the clutter that I taught you how to get out of
**your** life in_ [The Art of Being
Minimalist](http://www.artofbeingminimalist.com/)_ in order to find freedom.
Except, this time it’s **digital**, immaterial, made up of bits and bytes.

One of the jobs of the **digital** **self** is to** defend **your**
mental/knowledge body from the debris** that will clutter **your** mind with
useless information.

Many of you are just getting started on this journey towards building a
**digital** **self** that will take care of you. My **digital** **self** has
been growing simultaneously with my physical body since I was very young — it
was first manifest as a small website on Geocities when I was probably only
10-12 years old. A few times my **digital** **self** died, but that was okay,
because it’s easy to bring it back. Back then it was much harder to create a
healthy **digital** **self**, you had to learn how to code and other clumsy
things like that.

Gradually over time **your** **digital** **self** grows, and because there are
no boundaries on it’s capacity to grow (just like **your** energetic **self**)
it can become quite powerful. The reason you’re reading this is because my
**digital** **self** has a strong gravitational pull.

As when you were a teenager, **your** **digital** **self** is probably in the
awkward years when you were trying to figure out how to kiss girls because you
know they’re hot, but you can’t quite figure out how to make (&lt;– you can’t
make) them like you. Hint for you teenagers out there: practice more yoga.

****Mindfulness** **training** for **your** **digital** **self** is a huge priority in this age of the Internet.**

A healthy **digital** **self** will defend you against anything, a **digital**
**self** with a weakened immune system will allow **digital** bacteria to
invade, and this translates into all sorts of problems for **your** body in
the real world.

As we grow into increasingly **hybrid** individuals, we will begin to see our
own physical health effected more and more by the health of **your**
**digital** **self**.

This is all **digital** philosophy though, what we need to talk about is real
strategies that you can put into play in order to train **your** **digital**
**self** to take care of you.

**1\. How to Engage the Internet Actively.**

The most important element of **your** physical/**digital** body interactions
is they need to begin to start happening actively. This means you decide who
you interact with online, instead of the online world deciding who interacts
with you. Eventually **your** **digital** **self** will learn how to pick
**your** friends for you. It might even set you up with some incredibly hot
dates with beautiful and talented women, but for now it’s important for you to
decide who you want to interact with online.

Malcolm Gladwell’s classic _The Tipping Point_ states that you can only really
keep track of 150 people actively. This is why I only follow 79 people on
Twitter right now, because **as the **digital** **self** grows in power, the
connections become ever more important**. If you’re trying to keep up with
even a bit more than 150 people, **your** **digital** **self** is liable to
start to get anxious, and that nervousness will translate into **your**
physical **self** eventually.

If you follow everyone on the Internet, you’ll end up hearing a lot of stupid
stuff about kittens. Kittens are freakin’ cute, but we aren’t on the web to
read about them. We’re on the web to save the planet, create world peace, and
bring everyone to the next level. Who knows, maybe kittens can save the
planet, but I don’t think so.

**2\. How to Set Appropriate Expectations.**

Every single person I know who has grown a **digital** **self** until it can
take care of them passively, no matter what they decide to do, has set
appropriate expectations for how their physical body will interact with the
Internet.

For Tammy Strobel, this is [turning off comments on her
blog](http://rowdykittens.com/2010/12/runningsmalltopia/).

For Gwen Bell, this is [checking her email once per
day](http://www.gwenbell.com/blog/2010/1/26/how-to-unhook-from-your-inbox-in-7
-easy-and-only-slightly-pa.html).

For Leo Babauta, this is [not using email at all](http://zenhabits.net
/killing-email-how-and-why-i-ditched-my-inbox/).

The truth of the matter is that Leo Babauta does use email, you’re just not
allowed to know what his email address is because if you had it he’d never get
any work done. Gwen Bell might actually check her email once per day, but the
expectation set that you might just not hear back from her for a day or two.
**When you turn off blog comments, **your** blog will begin to grow
exponentially in power** because the now everyone who wants to write something
about what you’re saying has to do it on their own blogs — thus hyperlinking
to you.

**Hyperlinks are like food for **your** **digital** **self****, it needs them in order to keep from starving. **Your** **digital** **self** also needs hyperlinks in order to grow stronger, defend you against anything, and ultimately take care of **your** physical body completely.

Most people set the expectation that they will reply to emails the moment they
get them. This approach is in a very real way killing you, **your** physical
**self** and **your** **digital** **self**.

If you set the expectation that you’re always there, you’ll end up running
around like a pigeon with it’s head cut off checking **your** crackberry or
iPhone every minute of the day. You know this feeling, and it isn’t good.
Checking **your** email every single second of every day makes you fat, ugly,
and stressed. It keeps you from becoming successful.

**3\. How to Train **Your** **Digital** **Self** in Martial Arts.**

You have to train **your** **digital** **self** to defend you against attacks
from other lesser beings on the Internet. As **your** **digital** **self**
grows in power, so will the attacks that come in from every direction. Most of
these come from confused humans who don’t understand that we’re all here to
save the planet.

The truth of the matter is that you cannot argue with people online, it’s just
not productive. The only way to deal with people who are trolling **your**
**digital** **self** is to banish them.

If a crazy person came up to you on the street and started screaming at you to
stop doing **your** work, would you listen to them? Of course not. The same
goes for the Internet, and yet so many of you let these people decide how you
feel about yourself.

As **your** **digital** **self** grows with gravity, the attacks will increase
at an exponential rate. This is shocking at first to a lot of people. The
first time someone emailed me and told me to stop doing what I was doing, I
cried. The next time, I still cried.

You know what? It still hurts. Every single time I get a message from some
idiot out there who wants to lash out at me because he hates his life, I can
only feel eternal sympathy for them, which translates into my own discomfort.

You can only take so much of this, before you want to kill **your**
**digital** **self** by deleting **your** Facebook and never write another
blog post again.

The trick is to train **your** **digital** **self** in martial arts.

**As soon as **your** **digital** **self** identifies a troll…**

1\. In email, mark as SPAM.  
2\. On Twitter, mark as BLOCK.  
3\. On Facebook, unfriend immediately.

Do not engage in counter-strikes against these people, do not argue, just
ignore them. Criticism is the least valuable commodity in the world, and you
do NOT gain anything from bringing it into **your** life.

Gradually you will be seen as impervious to these attacks. I also believe that
one of the developments on the Internet in the next few years will be the
intelligence to decide what messages are allowed to come to **your** physical
body, and which will automatically be recognized as attacks on you and
**your** work.

If you need feedback on **your** work, seek it from someone who has done what
you are trying to do.

**4\. How to Take **Digital** Retreats.**

Sometimes the reality of the **digital** world becomes too much. You can’t
sort through the noise because the cloud is too thick. You’re drowning under
email, tweets and Facebook messages, and you can’t see a path through. In this
case, it’s time to take a **digital** sabbatical.

If you remember I took a [month-long **digital**
sabbatical](http://www.farbeyondthestars.com/how-to-unplug/) in August, and
when I returned [my business was having the best
month](http://www.farbeyondthestars.com/7-ways-to-invest-your-time-besides-
commenting-on-blogs/) it had ever had. Initially I had concerns that the
**digital** sabbatical would kill my blog, but it turned out to do the
opposite.

Instead of falling apart when I was gone, my **digital** **self** grew in
strength and took care of everything that I needed. When you’ve embraced
systems of automation, **your** **digital** **self** can grow in power until
it can be in a position to do just this.

I’m not the only person who has taken **digital** sabbaticals, [Tammy
Strobel](http://rowdykittens.com/2010/07/digital-sabbatical/) and [Gwen
Bell](http://www.gwenbell.com/blog/2010/7/1/digital-sabbatical.html) are also
champions of a good retreat from the constant **digital** noise, once in
awhile.

Many of these strategies for maintaining the **digital** **self** are useful,
and I’ve practiced all of them at one time or another.

When you approach the Internet in an active way, it doesn’t become
overwhelming. Instead, it helps you become greater than yourself.

I hope you’ll consider joining us in growing **your** **digital** **self**, it
might just bring you to the next level.
