---
title: 1 Simple Strategy to Save $2,000 this Holiday and Make Everyone Love You Forever
---

This post is going to go viral, so if **you**’re here for the first time let
me introduce myself to those of **you** who are new.

**My name is Everett Bogue, and I think **you**’re an idiot.**

Why? Because **you** think that buying people things for Christmas will
**make** them **love** **you**.

**You** think this for a lot of reasons, here are a few of them.

  1. **You**’ve been giving and getting presents at Christmas since the dawn of time. It must be right, right?
  2. **You** watched TV and saw all of the happy faces around the Christmas tree in the Coca Cola commercials, in the car commercials, in the clothing commercials. Going to to the mall to buy things for people must be what Christmas is all about, right?
  3. **You** haven’t followed up as to where the stuff that **you** bought **everyone** for Christmas actually ended up by the time New Years came around (hint: the closet, where no one has to look at what **you** gave them.)

**Why your reality is broken.**

The **simple** fact is that your mind has been manipulated by mega-
corporations into the mess that it is now. **You**’ve been bombarded by
advertising since the day **you** were born telling **you** that the only way
Christmas would be a success was if **you** spent somewhere around $1,000 on
gifts for people.

Gallup estimates the average American will spend $714 on Christmas
gifts that no one actually needs this year. If **you** hadn’t
read this post, **you** probably would have spent way more. There’s no need to
thank me yet, keep reading.

What they didn’t tell **you** about Christmas-gift-giving is that no one
actually cares anymore. They don’t want the stuff **you**’re buying them. In
fact, **everyone** **you** give gifts to is trying to recycle them, donate
them, or stuff them in their attic as soon as possible.

Think about it this way: when was the last time **you** got something for
Christmas that **you** really wanted?

I’m waiting… still nothing? Exactly.

If **you** didn’t get anything **you** wanted, maybe **you**’re not giving
anything that anyone wants either.

**Why does no one care about the sweater or flashlight **you** gave them?**

Here’s the deal. We already have way more than we ever needed. Look around,
**you** have everything. Your family has everything. If **you** didn’t have
something **you** needed, **you** could go to the corner store or Target and
buy it for less than $20.

The reality is that your **holiday** shopping is overlooking the one thing
that **everyone** actually wants Santa Claus to bring for them.

While **you** were at the mall running around swiping your credit card, a
small child was crying into their pillow asking for something that **you**
never could buy them at the mall.

**What is the one thing that **everyone** wants for Xmas?**

Freedom.

One more time: **the best gift anyone can get for Christmas is freedom**. Why?

Because the **1** most valuable commodity in the world is freedom. The
ability to live on your own terms, doing what **you** want to do with your
life.

And the fact that **you**’re buying crap for people is in direct opposition of
the most important goal in everyone’s life. What is everyone’s goal? Freedom.

One more time, just in case **you** missed it: more stuff ≠ freedom.

**You** know what the worst part about this whole equation is? The crap **you**’re buying for people is getting in the way of your own freedom too. Couldn’t **you** use all of that cash **you**’re spending on stuff for people’s closets on making your own life better? I think so.

**How to operate with a blown mind.**

I understand, **you**’re confused and scared. What I’m saying is blowing your
mind. Has every Christmas gift **you**’ve given been a waste?

Well, no. **You** see, for a long time having a lot of things was a sign of
wealth. People who had money would buy fancy cars and decorate their living
rooms with all of the nicest Ikea furniture.

But somewhere along the way that changed. The fact is that our generation,
yours and mine, is starting to figure out that there is a better way to
display your wealth. This generation is calling themselves a lot of things.
Some operate under the moniker of [Minimalist Freedom
Fighters](http://www.artofbeingminimalist.com/), others call this generation
The New Rich.

Our generation is the most mobile generation ever. We live out of backpacks,
wandering the world in search of experiences. We don’t want another set of
Ultimate Scrabble or another dinky flashlight/radio, because we already have
it on our iPhone — and besides, it wouldn’t fit into our backpack.

What is certain is this: the less **you** have the more choices **you** have
to pursue your dreams.

If dreams are like fairies, every time **you** give a Christmas present,
Tinkerbell falls out of the sky somewhere and a lost boy cries.

**So how can we fix Christmas?**

If **you**’ve stuck around long enough to get to this point in the blog post,
I’d like to offer some resources in order to **save** a shit-ton of money, as
well as **make** people want to sit next to **you** at the dining room table
at Christmas.

****1**. Use your resources to help someone achieve their dreams.**

All of your friends and family are trying to achieve something (probably
freedom, see above.) If **you** have the resources to spend tons of money on
Christmas gifts, then **you** have the ability to re-direct those resources
towards helping your family achieve great things. Ask your little cousin what
they want to learn, and then help them pay for a class so they can learn it.
Does your cousin need more education in order to rock the opportunities the
world has to offer? Ask and see if there’s anyway **you** can help. Does your
sister need funding to get her [minimalist
business](http://www.minimalistbusiness.com/) off the ground? Maybe give her a
few hundred bucks with no strings attached. If **you** don’t have any friends
or family who need help, consider investing your money in [Kiva
International](http://www.kiva.org/) so that entrepreneurs in 3rd world
countries can help themselves and their families this **holiday** season.

**2\. Two inexpensive and under-appreciated gifts.**

There are two things that can **make** Christmas dinner better. **1**. Hugs,
which are COMPLETELY FREE, and so infrequently given. 2. More wine. If **you**
absolutely must buy something, use your money to get something that
**everyone** can share and consume at Christmas dinner — then no one has to
try to figure out what the socially acceptable length of time before they can
**make** another trip to Salvation Army is.

**3\. Sometimes the best gift **you** can give is to yourself.**

What will **make** your life better? What will **make** **you** happier? I
know this is a hard question to ask yourself. The answer is almost certainly
not giving useless gifts to people who don’t need them. I bet **you** want to
book a trip to Europe right now, don’t **you**? Well, do it. Or maybe **you**
want to start a small business that pays for your life as **you** live and
work from anywhere? Well, do it. Or maybe **you** want to learn something?
Well, go take a freakin’ class and learn something new!

**You**’ve only got a short time on this planet, so don’t waste it being conned into wasting your money on stupid junk by giant corporations. **You**’re worth more to yourself than that.

–

This post is going to go viral without your help, because it matters this
**holiday** season.

But, if **you** liked the message and don’t want to get another flashlight for
Christmas, I’d **love** if **you**’d send this to your entire family, all of
your friends, and perhaps your neighbors too. Definitely send it to that one
person in your family who always buys **you** junk that **you** don’t need,
**you** know who they are.

A great way to forward this on is to use the ‘Like’ on Facebook button, or the
Retweet button if **you** use Twitter. Thank **you**, and happy Holidays! Ho
ho ho ho.
