---
title: Why You Shouldn’t Believe (how to experience for yourself)
---

As many of **you** know, for the last few weeks (and the next few) I’ve been
studying yoga intensively at [Yoga to the People in San
Francisco](http://yogatothepeople.com/sanfrancisco).

I’ve been learning a lot of things, many of which I can’t begin to convey in a
way that would be understandable to **you** yet. Wisdom, knowledge, and
understanding takes awhile to coalesce into anything close to being
presentable across the Internet.

The origins of yoga extend backwards 5,000 years into the history of the
entire world. We think of yoga as being from India, but in actuality the
practice has been built by all of humanity, a technology for building better
human beings.

Yoga isn’t the point of this article though, belief is.

Recently we sat down for a lecture on the Koshas, which is yogic belief system
which speaks of the different layers of the body. The physical body, the
energy body, the mental body, the wisdom body, the bliss body, and finally
underneath all of that the true self.

**Most people are obsessed with the physical body, and the physical things around them.** This leads to the current state of materialism in the world — and why materialism in and of itself is deeply unsatisfying to most people. It’s because there’s so much more.

I’m pretty fascinated with the energy body right now, Pranamaya.** How we
gain, use, and lose energy is incredibly important.** I think that much of the
work we’re doing to free people is at its base convincing them to free their
energy. So they can breathe again.

When someone burns all of their junk, they feel incredibly free. When **you**
get out of a relationship, suddenly energy comes from everywhere. It’s all
interconnected into a part of ourselves that many of us are deeply
disconnected from.

But this is also not the point of this article. Let me get to it.

The first thing the lecturer told us was simple:

**“Don’t **believe** anything that I tell **you**.” **

And then followed with:

“All of this **you** must **experience** for **yourself**.”

I think this approach is so incredibly important for **you**, and I, to
understand.

I can tell **you** to [burn your notebooks](http://www.farbeyondthestars.com
/how-to-destroy-your-past-lives-starting-over/) all **you** want, in order to
free creative energy, but **how are **you** going to know what it feels like
until **you** **experience** it **yourself**?** The article I wrote on freeing
**yourself** from your past lives was incredibly powerful for a lot of people,
but in order to actually **experience** what I’m talking about, **you**’re
going to have to **experience** **yourself**.

How does it feel to delete the photos of your ex-boyfriend?

How does it feel to sell the house **you**’ve lived in for the last 26 years?

How does it feel to drop your TV off your roof?

How does it feel to move to the other side of the country?

How does it feel to not have a home at all?

How does it feel to swap out bacon egg and cheeses for breakfast fruit?

How does it feel to make $27 ([or
$2,300?](http://www.farbeyondthestars.com/2300-in-a-day-how-to-support-
quality-work/)) of location-independent income?

All of these seem like really good ideas, theoretically. But they also could
be really bad ideas in practice. But **you** just don’t know until **you** try
them.

**Every lesson I’ve taught **you** in the last year on this blog has been very much optional.** Also, every lesson I’ve taught **you** could be the wrong match for a lot of people. I like living a unrooted lifestyle. I gain energy from **wandering the streets of San Francisco, [smiling at the tranquility](http://rowdykittens.com/2010/11/smile/) in the chaos.** **You** might not be so into that, but **you** don’t know until **you** try.

**Self-evolution happens in different ways for different people. **

If **you**’d caught me two years ago, glanced off the top of my cubicle and
told me that in one year I’d be working less than 2 hours a day, practicing
and learning about yoga for 35 hours a week, I would have told **you** that
**you** were nuts. …and yet, here I am.

If I told **you** that your wildest dream was possible, **would **you** really
**believe** me?** Do **you** **believe** **yourself** when **you** tell
**you**?

The human mindbody is incredible. It can convince **you** that **you** have
great power. It can convince **you** that **you** have great worry. It can
hold onto anything. The mind can give **you** a life of suffering or a life of
joy. **You** really are the [decisive
element](http://blog.gaiam.com/quotes/authors/johann-wolfgang-von-
goethe-0/44385) in every situation. The work that we’re doing here, is very
much an exercise in exploring how far we can push our minds into believing
that we’re actually capable of living in a way that is important.

Many of the best books I’ve read in the last year weren’t good because of the
writing, they weren’t good because of the content, **these books were good
because they retrained my mind** to think in a very specific beneficial way.

Books like _[Think and Grow Rich](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1453890505?
ie=UTF8&tag=theexpelife-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN
=1453890505)_, _[The 4 Hour Workweek](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0307465
357?ie=UTF8&tag=theexpelife-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creative
ASIN=0307465357)_, _[Tribes](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1591842336?ie=UT
F8&tag=theexpelife-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1591
842336)_ all show **you** that success isn’t a result, it’s a mindset.
Happiness isn’t a quantification, it’s a mindset.

We have control over our minds.  
We have control over our bodies.  
We have control over how we gain energy, lose energy, store energy and use
energy.  
We can also [control the minds of other people](https://www.e-junkie.com/ecom/
gb.php?ii=835025&c=ib&aff=118549&cl=120311), consciously or unconsciously.

There are so many ways to do this, but most people don’t investigate them
(yoga is one.) Instead they sit in front of the TV, mindlessly sucking up
whatever is in front of them. Their energy sinks into the couch cushions.

Mindsets are patterns. **The pattern created from nightly watching TV is much
different from the pattern of nightly practicing yoga with 75 people in candle
light. **

Let me bring this back to the point of this article:

Don’t **believe** me, and don’t **believe** anyone else. **You** need to
**experience** all of this from **yourself**, **you** can’t just keep
subscribing to my blog waiting for the change to come about. These words are
only permission for **you** to embark on your own exploration of a reality
that **you** have access to. In fact, I’d love if **you**’d unsubscribed to my
blog if it would help put **you** on the path to experiencing real life.

**You**’re not going to know what it’s like to live without a TV until **you** do.

**You**’re not going to know what it’s like to eat fruit for breakfast every morning until **you** do.

**You**’re not going to know how much energy **you** gain from practicing yoga twice a day (in a beneficial way) until **you** do.

**You**’re not going to know what it’s like to throw away all of your stuff and move across the country until **you** do.

**You**’re not going to know what it’s like to read people’s energy from across the room until **you** do.

**You**’re not going to know if what I talk about is an** unrealistic fantasy world, or if anything is possible**, until **you** do.

Maybe it’s time to start working towards a reality that **you** can
**believe** in — one that **you**’re experiencing for **yourself**…

…**you** won’t know if it’s possible until **you** do.

–

If **you**’re trying to figure out how to do a good interview, [Nina Yau did
an incredibly good one with me
here](http://castlesintheair.org/blog/2010/11/16/evbogue-interview/).

–

I really hope **you**’ll check out [Tara Sophia Mohr’s blog
today](http://wiselivingblog.com/) — she’s involved an epic project called
[The Girl Effect](http://www.girleffect.org/), which I **believe** will change
the world. Tara and I spoke to a class at Stanford last week, which was a
blast.

Basically, investing in women in the 3rd world is been proven to make lasting
change. When **you** give money to men in Africa (or anywhere) they tend to
spend it on booze and motorcycles (I know, because I have, and I don’t even
live in Africa.) Women tend to build businesses and support their families.

[Go help Tara and women everywhere out](http://wiselivingblog.com/), by
retweeting her stuff. Women are so powerful. Thank **you** for your help! —
Everett


yourself%2F)