---
title: How Blogging Evolves(ed)
---

**Blogging** is in transition.

Many of us who have practicing **blogging** for awhile are becoming incredibly
aware of the limits of the web as a medium for communication.

We have so much inside ourselves that we want to communicate, but our ideas
end up getting caught in a technology that hasn’t changed very much since I
was a teenager.

Yes, **blogging** has definitely gotten more widgets — but the most important
decisions I usually make on my blog is turning all of the little functions
off. Essentially many of us are **blogging** in the same way that we did ten
years ago. The only difference is how we get the blog posts out, which these
days is mostly by Twitter.

I turned off the Facebook ‘Like’ button, because as much as I loved the large
number on the top of my posts that resulted from people pressing it, the
actual traffic to my site was negligible. This is because Facebook wants
Facebookers to stay on Facebook where they can be shown ads and click ‘Like’
on photos of girls/boys they will never sleep with.

Regardless, all of the smart people I know are leaving
Facebook anyway.

**Blogging** needs two things to make it more successful as a platform:

**1\. Bandwidth.**

Bandwidth is a term that we cybernetic yogis use to convey the depth of an
information transfer between two humans. F2F (face to face) is universally the
highest definition, holograms are the next (but are kind of hard to find in
the world right now — soon enough) next is 3d video, video, still photos,
audio, and then finally text.

**Blogging** tends to find itself in one of the lowest bandwidth ranges — text. The good thing about text is the low bandwidth means that it can travel much farther and faster than higher-bandwidth creations. A tweet can be read by 5000 people instantly, a blog post by 2000, but a video will probably only be played by 200, and F2F only conducted with one person at a time.

This results in an ecosystem of how we interact on the web. As my blog grows
in popularity, my threshold for F2F has grown with it. Whenever I say ‘Wheels
down in X-city’ I commonly get dozens of requests to connect — hardly any I
can answer because F2F takes an incredible amount of energetic power,
especially if it’s a one-way conversation.

**2\. Dimensionality. **

Dimensionality is how smart the blog is in relation to its readers. For
example, not everyone who comes to my work is in a place where they want to
read about cybernetic yoga. They might want to time-travel back to when I was
writing about how to reduce your possessions to less than 100 things.

This is where the intelligence of the web itself needs to evolve, I’m not sure
how much **blogging** or even my own ability to curate the content can correct
for the huge variables involved in breadth of the knowledge that readers who
stumble across this blog may have.

To generalize, my blog used to have some pretty solid content for
20-somethings who were uncomfortable with their jobs — but over time my
content has shifted to a place where I imagine my core audience is centered on
Silicon Valley futurists.

What if people who needed my ‘how to quit your soul-sucking job’ posts could
get be shown that content instantly? What if the people who really needed to
declutter a desk could be shown that content instantly? What if the people who
want to learn mental cybernetics could be shown that content instantly?

A lot of the tension surrounding my blog right now is the fact that
decluttering-desks people are accidentally stumbling across posts on mental
cybernetics. Not everyone is in the same place, it’s a big leap from clutter
to maintaining your 3rd brain.

I think **blogging** systems will need to learn to adapt to this level of
dimensionality if **blogging** is going to evolve.

–

I’ve been **blogging** on Far Beyond The Stars since October of 2009, since
then my strategy has changed a lot. I’ll take the rest of this post to point
out some ways in which I’ve changed my **blogging** strategy.

**1\. Business strategy entirely F2F (face to face).**

I used to get my **blogging** knowledge from places like Problogger and
Copyblogger, which I’m not linking to, because after a few months of
experimentation I realized that almost everything those sites teach you is
wrong. Everyone still thinks those sites are popular because 80% of bloggers
have been trained (like little **blogging** puppies!) to suck up to
established authorities in the off chance that they get linked to by an
‘A-List blogger’. The reality is that when I was linked to by Problogger last
month it resulted in a grand total of 34 click-throughs.

If I do need intelligent advice on getting traffic to my blog, I commonly will
buy [Corbett Barr](http://www.corbettbarr.com/) three beers or some good
Scotch and ask him his honest opinion about my **blogging** strategy. The next
best thing to buying Corbett drinks is [reading his
blog](http://www.thinktraffic.net/).

The lesson here is that all of my learning these days is not being done from
blogs, instead I’m reaching out to people who I respect in real life. The
highest bandwidth is real life, so if you want to learn how to blog
successfully, the #1 strategy that you can employ is to meet a successful
blogger in real life. Obviously this is hard to do, I commonly get upward of
dozens of requests for drinks when I land in any city.

Start by reaching out to bloggers who are around your same level and in your
city. For example, one of the first bloggers I met up with was [Ash
Ambirge](http://www.themiddlefingerproject.org/) in New York — now we’re both
rockstar bloggers. Why? Because we supported each other until we found
success.

Getting access to a rockstar blogger/entrepreneur F2F is difficult, but can
upgrade your success at an incredibly fast rate — if you’re open to their
suggestions.

**2\. Stopped caring about stats.**

When I first launched my blog, I was obsessed with how many people read my
blog posts. I’d click on google analytics three times a day (even though it
only updates once a day!) I know, it seems silly now. Anyway, now I don’t care
about stats so much.

I’d rather have a small group of enthusiastic readers than a large group of
confused readers.

When you write for the masses, you end up writing stupid posts that no one
cares about. One of the most surprising elements of transitioning from writing
about minimalism to writing about augmented humanity/the cybernetic yogi
lifestyle is that my blog traffic has actually gone up (though, I’ve only
checked it once this month).

Why is that? Because **blogging** success comes from pushing your own personal
edge. Too many young bloggers are trying to write what they think other people
want to read, instead of writing work that actually challenges themselves.

Culture exists on the fringes. The center is boring, and secretly everyone
wants out of the mediocre middle.

**3\. Pushing audience interactions to higher levels. **

Many blogs will encourage you to ‘join the conversation’ in a place called
“The Comments”.

“The comments” is where your good ideas and time (your most valuable
commodity) goes to die. The reason for this is no one actually sees comments,
because it’s generally assumed by the majority of smart Internet users that
the commenting section is a place where the low-life of the Internet go to
play.

Many people go straight to the comment section of larger blogs and post a “me
too!” comment, because Darren Rowse told them that posting comments on other
blogs is the #1 way to build your blog audience on his aforementioned blog
that should be re-titled Unproblogger.com

There are two more important ways to “join the conversation” (whatever that
means.) These two ways are guaranteed you put your interaction in a space
where others can actually see it.

**1\. Respond on Twitter. This way all of your followers can see it, and check out whether I’m really awesome/lost it themselves and weigh in on Twitter. When your followers see you responding to creators on Twitter, they will learn how to respond to your creations on Twitter, thus bringing more attention to your work! Yay!

**2\. Respond on your blog.** If you read something online that really blows your mind, one of the most powerful actions you can take is to respond on your own blog. This can be as simple as linking to a post “this post made me think.” or can be a 2,000 word exposé building on the awesomeness of the material that you’ve been reading. They call it The Web for a reason, there are hyperlinks connecting everything. If you avoid hyperlinking out from your blog, no one will ever know your blog exists.

Both of these are what I consider ‘high-level’ interactions on the web. You
know how in the middle ages all of the kings and royalty had great parties in
the castles while all of the serfs got to sit outside the castles and live
miserable lives? Twitter and **blogging** = building castles. Dwelling in
comments or on Facebook = rolling in mud while we giggle at you from the
castles. The good thing about modern day royalty is you don’t need to be born
into the castle to stay there, all you need to do is launch a blog or sign up
for Twitter.
