---
title: The Facebook Exodus and the Future of Human Communication
---

_Boulder, CO. January 26th 2011. _

I left (deactivated) **Facebook** with the intention of never returning a few
days ago. I thought I’d share a few thoughts on why here on the public blog.

Many of the smartest people I know are leaving **Facebook** as well. I predict
we’ll see many people leaving over the coming months and adopting Twitter.

For around a year I’ve been using Twitter as my primary way to communicate
with most of the important people in my life.

I believe that Twitter is a new form of **communication** so important that it
rivals the development of language in the evolutionary history of the
**human** race.

In a few hundred years historians (or our immortal digital selves for that
matter) will look back at this day and say “wow, Twitter really changed a lot
of things for the people who used it. It’s too bad so many people stuck with
**Facebook** because they were brainwashed into clicking “Like” on photos of
hot girls/boys they’ll never sleep with all night long.”

Today, let’s just focus on why I left **Facebook**, and why you should too!

**1\. The purpose of the Internet is to facilitate face to face **communication****.

I’m beginning to see the Internet as a tool to bring people together, so they
can communicate 1 to 1 in order to exchange knowledge in a high-definition
way. I’ve noticed that I learn the best these days when I meet brilliant minds
to meld with, in person. **Facebook** wasn’t facilitating this for me, it was
simply becoming a black hole where plans are made but never acted upon.

Twitter does bring people together. The only reason I’m staying in Boulder CO
at the moment and speaking on May 21st 2011 at [This is
Mindful](http://thisismindful.com/) in Melbourne Australia is because of real
world interactions via Twitter.

These days I can tweet in any city, or to any city, and things happen such as
tweetups or missions dedicated to saving the world. If I need a place to stay,
why not just Tweet? Easy. Yes, it takes time to develop a Twitter network
large enough to facilitate this kind of massive collective interaction, but it
is possible.

**2\. Accelerated cultural evolution.**

Over time Twitter develops into convergent collectives of idea innovators and
executors. [@rosshill](http://twitter.com/rosshill) is a big advocate and
designer of these collectives. Essentially, your education begins to
accelerate due to natural group interactions on Twitter. I’ll tweet an idea
while [@edwardharren](http://www.twitter.com/edwardharren)
[@janstewart](http://www.twitter.com/janstewart)
[@davidahood](http://twitter.com/davidahood) are asleep in Melbourne, and
they’ll further the idea while I’m asleep in Boulder. Over Twitter we exchange
ideas, articles, and books that are necessary for the work that interests us,
thus we grow together.

This is exponential education — I’m an idea-growth addict these days.

If someone in the collective isn’t resonating with me, I simply unfollow. If I
stumble across someone who is resonating, I follow. It’s a fluid collective
with no obligations or contracts. Don’t worry if I unfollow you, I might just
come back later! It all has to do with where my mind is focused on the work.

Twitter collectives begin to develop their own languages and insider
knowledge. with Twitter can even start learning how to
[#ibc](http://janstewart.com.au/ibc), which is a pretty extraordinary
intuitive skill to master.

**3\. Attention is a currency.**

We’re in a full-scale war on Internet noise, and **Facebook** isn’t helping.
Facebook’s purpose is to bring you back again and again to see ads, this means
the software is designed to play on your **human** desires in order to make
you return to the software multiple times a day.

The noise on the Internet will only grow over the next few months, and our
**human** minds can’t deal with it. **Facebook** isn’t helping with the noise,
instead it’s adding to it.

Where Twitter retweets and @messages feel like an epic win in the
gameification of reality, **Facebook** “Likes” feel like an epic win for Mark
Zuckerberg. Why? Because every time someone hits the “Like” button on your
**Facebook** page, it draws you back into **Facebook** so you can see another
advertisement. Cash-money for **Facebook**.

You can’t trade your ‘Like’ wealth (the amount of times that someone has
clicked ‘Like’ on your status update or photo) for real cash –**Facebook** can
and does. Shouldn’t **Facebook** be paying you to spend all of your time on
their site?

**4\. We need to create and own our virtual reality worlds.**

[Gwen](http://www.gwenbell.com/) pointed me in the direction of this
[beautiful talk by Jonathan Harris](http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/video-
gain-2010-harris) about the reality of the Internet today. I want to make out
with him (we can invite Gwen too) after the talk, you will too after you watch
it.

Jonathan is beginning to see two Internets. One of these internets is filled
with condominiums that all look alike, with your own pictures on the walls.
These condos are easy, and free. Your great aunt can set one of these
**Facebook** condos up — so easy.

The other Internet is the one where we build our own beautiful virtual worlds.
This blog for example exists in a world that I have control over — it wouldn’t
be the same or have any power if I hosted the content on **Facebook** or
another condo-like housing situation.

The problem with renting a free internet condo (ahem, **Facebook**) is that
someone else has control of your virtual world. So, the default for a
generation of new Internet users has been to go the easy route.

The thing is, the easy route isn’t going to create you a second self that
supports your life in the real world, it’s just going to keep you in a place
where you’re interacting with the noise.

The farther we get away from letting someone else control our virtual world,
the easier it is to find success in a world filled with overwhelming digital
noise. This is why you find all of the successful digital people on Twitter,
and hordes of people caught up in the noise on **Facebook** wondering why
nothing is working for them.

–

Leaving **Facebook** is hard. It’s a part of your 3rd brain, the part of your
mind that’s situated in the cloud. It’s important to build a Twitter presence
first, and then slowly transition away from **Facebook**. To avoid losing all
of your ambient intimacy at once, move slowly and with intention from
**Facebook** to Twitter.

Here’s how to join us in our Twitter revolution. It’s a leap of faith, I’ll
see you on the other side.

Twitter quick start guide:

  1. [Sign up for an account](https://twitter.com/signup) using your name.
  2. Put a picture of your face. (No, not your hand, your face. No, not your kitten, your face.)
  3. Don’t follow celebrities or organizations (for the most part.)
  4. Follow real humans and cyborgs.
  5. Follow less than 150 people. 50 is ideal. Rotate the list based on resonation and intuition.
  6. Retweet links that you like. Say things that are awesome. Send positive energy into the world. Try unexpected things.

Let’s make the leap into a world where we have control of our virtual worlds.

[The Jonathan Harris Aiga talk is here](http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/video-
gain-2010-harris) if you have 36 minutes to watch beautifulness.

Gwen wrote about her and Patrick’s [experience leaving and being moderate with
**Facebook**](http://www.gwenbell.com/blog/2011/1/25/defanging-facebook.html)
here.

Gwen and I recorded a video on the way to the coffee shop about [why we left
**Facebook** here](http://youtu.be/pXl1nXxHdWg).

Retweet this post so your friends can see it. If you’re still on **Facebook**,
hit the ‘Like’ button so more people will defect to the free world.