---
title: The Art of Being Minimalist (explaining the end) - Far Beyond The Stars
---

Information is flowing faster.

An idea that we come up today will be adopted by the collective tomorrow.

Remember two months ago when everyone thought I’d lost my mind when I started
to talk about cyborgs/augmented humanity? Then suddenly [Eric
Schmidt](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-IGfBGHDHRc) and [Amber
Case](http://www.ted.com/talks/amber_case_we_are_all_cyborgs_now.html) start
talking about the same thing, and we’re living in a world-wide cyborg-coming-
out party.

I like to call this idea-triangulation. The same thing happened when people
were terrified about the idea of becoming a **minimalist** a year ago. As
[Derek Sivers mentioned](http://sivers.org/ff): “The first follower transforms
a lone nut into a leader.”

This is just one example of how much faster info travels than it did one year
ago.

When I wrote _The **Art** of **Being** **Minimalist**_, the world needed
instructions. It needed someone to tell the world, point blank: here’s what
happens when you throw out all of your stuff.

And this, admittedly prescriptive knowledge worked, for a time.

However, then one day I realized that I wasn’t a **minimalist** at all. I was
an augmented human, I had been from the start.

Then, I began to see the pattern in augmented humanity everywhere: minimalism
was simply a side-effect of developing skill in mental cybernetics.

–

We are responsible for the ideas that we put out onto the Internet.

Once the ideas go out, they can’t come back.

Information propagates infinitely faster than we can hit the delete key.

That **being** said, we can (and should) take responsibility for distribution
to a point. If an idea is no longer valid, we can’t continue to sell it.

When I look at _The **Art** of **Being** **Minimalist**_, I see a movement
that had it’s time.

Minimalism is an element of augmented reality. There will always be space to
teach that knowledge, and many will continue to do so.

As humans begin to see the way that augmented humanity is living, the
incentive will be to transition into this new life. The ideas behind
minimalism will allow that, but it needs an upgrade first.

I leave that up to you.

As for me, I’m stepping away from minimalism as a movement.

I live out of a bag. I live anywhere. My second self takes care of me. The
mental tools of a newly augmented world make this possible.

The choice of minimalism was to embrace our cultural evolution, the choice
came, the choice went.

Minimalism, the movement, can now be reduced to a simple equation:

“Rent a dumpster, throw your crap in it, join the future.”

“Blank Page…?”
