---
title: On Embracing Uncertainty  - Far Beyond The Stars
---

There’s been a lot of **uncertainty** in my life lately, which has made me
think about the ways in which I’ve practiced in order to exist in a state of
**uncertainty** without allowing situations to develop into negative
situations.

The **world** is changing at a rapid pace. I know this because I see how
technology is **accelerating** our cultural evolution with my own eyes. I know
because when I look within myself I see how fast my internal sense of being is
shifting.

I know because when I look outward I see people who can breathe, and I see
those who are locking up in face of change.

The ones who can breathe are thriving. The ones who aren’t trained in
**embracing** change are locking up, shutting down, and turning off.

Our first reaction to **uncertainty** might not always be the most healthy, or
even beneficial. We want to search for security when faced with an
overwhelming change, security often looks like a box. We throw ourselves into
the box, the idea of what we’re supposed to cherish as ‘being safe’ as a way
of protecting ourselves.

The box isn’t protection though, it’s a temporary prison. The change is still
going around outside, you’ve just shut down your senses so you can’t feel it
anymore.

The box can look like many things. The box can be trying to make plans to get
past the fact that you have no idea what will happen. The box can be reacting
in anger, jealousy, rage, placing blame on others, the external **world**, for
allegedly causing you harm. The box can be ignoring that there’s any
**uncertainty** at all. The box can be as simple as saying ‘it’s not my job to
deal with the situation that’s in front of me.’

The longer you’re in the box, the more it will hurt when you come out.

The reality is that no one is ever causing you harm. The **world** is fluid,
and change is the only constant. When we cling, to an idea, to an expectation,
to a person, to a place, we simply end up causing ourselves more suffering.

We’re told by society everywhere, on the TVs, movies, books, etc that we need
to control our lives. Everything needs to be in nice, clean, orderly rows. A
job is supposed to be a job, a man is supposed to be a man, an email is
supposed to be an email, a definition is supposed to be a definition, a
marriage is supposed to be forever, and a btw why not go get a house in the
suburbs and a two cars for the garage?

That was never our destiny, we know that because when we try those things they
don’t feel right. Security makes us tired.

When we cling to the idea of security it makes us want to drink an entire
bottle of Jäger and puke on ourselves. Security makes us want to turn off our
Internet and throw that glass vase our aunt gave us that we didn’t want
against our kitchen wall.

I’m writing this from a place of existing in **uncertainty**, I know because
these days I’m not sure where I’ll be sleeping at night. I jumped on a plane
to Seattle, and ended up in Boulder –which ended up being the best last minute
decision in my life.

The reality of **uncertainty** is that it is actually the most rewarding state
for humans to exist in. In an uncertain **world**, days can seem like weeks or
months in the space/time continuum. In an uncertain **world**, ideas come at
the speed of light. In an uncertain **world**, you can put your feet down in
any city without a plan and you’ll survive, thrive, and discover the depths in
yourself and others.

In a certain **world**, years can blink past in an instant. For me, the last
month or so of **uncertainty** has felt like one thousand years.
